better is the poor who walks in his
integrity than one who is perverse in
his lips and is a fool also it is not
good for a soul to be without knowledge
and he sins who hastens with his feet
the foolishness of a man twists his way
and his heart frets against the Lord
wealth makes many friends but the poor
is separated from his friend a false
witness will not go unpunished and he
who speaks lies will not escape many
entreat the favor of the nobility and
every man is a friend to one who gives
gifts all the brothers of the poor hate
him how much more do his friends go far
from him he may pursue them with words
yet they abandoned him he who gets
wisdom loves his own soul he who keeps
understanding will find good a false
witness will not go unpunished and he
who speaks lies Shall Perish luxury is
not fitting for a fool much less for a
servant to rule over princes the
discretion of a man makes him slow to
anger and his glory is to overlook a
transgression the Kings wrath is like
the roaring of a lion but his favor is
like the dew on the grass a foolish son
is the ruin of his father and the
contentions of a wife are a continual
dripping houses and riches are an
inheritance from father's but a prudent
wife is from the Lord
laziness cast one into a deep sleep and
an idle person will suffer hunger he who
keeps the commandment keeps his soul but
he who is careless of his ways will die
he who has pity on the poor lends to the
Lord and he will pay back what he has
given
chasing your son while there is hope do
not set your heart on his destruction a
man of great wrath will suffer
punishment for if you rescue him you
will have to do it again listen to
counsel and receive instruction that you
may be wise in your last days there are
many plans in a man's heart nevertheless
the Lord's counsel that will stand what
is desired in a man his kindness and a
poor man is better than a liar the fear
of the Lord leads to life and he who has
it will abide in satisfaction he will
not be visited with evil a lazy man
buries his hand in the bowl and will not
so much as bring it to his mouth again
strike a scoffer
and the simple will become weary rebuked
one who is understanding and he will
discern knowledge
he who mistreats his father and chases
away his mother is a son who causes
shame and brings reproach cease
listening to instruction my son and you
will stray from the words of knowledge a
disreputable witness scorns justice and
the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity
judgments are prepared for scoffers and
beatings for the backs of fools